The Task Force
called for a psychiatrist
as soon as Barnes was captured.
The UN dispatched
Doctor Theo Broussard
from Geneva within the hour.
He was met by this man.
Did you run facial
recognition yet?
What do I look like?
Uh, I don't know.
I've been picturing a redhead.
You must be thinking
of someone else.
Must be.
The fake doctor is actually
Colonel Helmut Zemo.
Sokovian Intelligence.
Zemo ran Echo Scorpion...
a Sokovian covert kill squad.
What happened to
the real Broussard?
He was found dead
in a Berlin hotel room.
Where police also found a
wig and facial prosthesis...
approximating the appearance
of one James Buchanan Barnes.
Son of a bitch.
- Get this to Ross.
- Yes, boss.
The Stone reacts
to anything organic.
The bigger the target,
the bigger the power surge.
All Ronan's got to do is touch the
Stone to the planet's surface and zap.
All plants, animals,
- Nova Corps.
- Everything will die.
So Ronan does not
make the surface.
Rocket will lead a
team to blow a hole
in the Dark Aster's
starboard hull.
Then, our craft and
Yondu's will enter.
Won't there be hundreds
of Sakaaran soldiers inside?
I think of Sakaaran
as paper people.
Once they know we're on board,
Ronan will isolate himself behind
impenetrable security doors on deck.
Which I can disable by
dismantling the power source.
We'll make it to
the flight deck,
and I'll use the Hadron
Enforcer to kill Ronan.
Once Ronan is dead,
we will retrieve the Stone.
Use these devices to contain it.
If you touch it,
it will kill you.
I'll contact one of
the Nova officers
who arrested us.
Hopefully, they'll believe
we're there to help.
There's one more thing we
need to complete the plan.
That guy's eye.
No! No, we don't.
No, we don't need
that guy's eye.
- No, seriously, I need it!
- It's important to me.
Ronan's fleet has been spotted,
and will arrive in T-minus
fifteen minutes.
Remember, boy.
At the end of all this,
I get the Stone.
You cross me, we kill you all.
Let's go get 'em, boys!
This is a terrible plan.
Hey, you're the one who said
you wanted to die among friends.
This is Raft Prison Control.
You're cleared for
landing, Mr. Stark.
So? You got the files?
Let's reroute the satellites,
start facial scanning
for this Zemo guy.
You seriously think
I'm gonna listen to you
after that fiasco in Leipzig?
You're lucky you're
not in one of these cells.
The Futurist, gentlemen!
The Futurist is here!
He sees all!
He knows what's best for
you, whether you like it or not.
Give me a break, Barton.
I had no idea they'd put you here.
Come on.
Yeah, well, you knew they'd
put us somewhere, Tony.
Yeah, but not some
super-max floating ocean pokey.
This place is for maniacs.
This is a place for...
Criminals?
Criminals, Tony.
Think that's the word
you're looking for.
Right?
That didn't used to mean me.
Or Sam, or Wanda.
But here we are.
Because you broke the law. Yeah.
I didn't make you.
La, la, la, la, la...
You read it, you broke it.
You're all grown up,
you got a wife and kids.
I don't understand,
why didn't you
think about them before
you chose the wrong side?
You gotta watch your
back with this guy.
There's a chance
he's gonna break it.
Hank Pym always said
you never can trust a Stark.
Who are you?
Come on, man.
How's Rhodes?
They're flying him to
Columbia Medical tomorrow...
so fingers crossed.
What do you need?
They feed you yet?
You're the good cop, now?
I'm just the guy who needs
to know where Steve went.
Well, you better
go get a bad cop...
because you're gonna have to
go Mark Fuhrman on my ass...
to get information out of me.
Well, I just knocked
the A out of their AV.
We got about 30 seconds before
they realize it's
not their equipment.
What'd you do?
Get it back up!
Just look.
Because that...
is the fellow who was
supposed to interrogate Barnes.
Clearly, I made a mistake.
Sam, I was wrong.
That's a first.
Cap is definitely
off the reservation...
but he's about to need
all the help he can get.
We don't know
each other very well.
You don't have to...
Hey, it's all right.
Look, I'll tell you...
but you have to go
alone and as a friend.
Easy.
Stark?
Did he give you
anything on Rogers?
Nope. Told me to go to hell.
I'm going back to the
compound instead,
but you can call me anytime.
I'll put you on hold.
I like to watch the line blink.
Nova Prime.
I received a transmission
from one of the Ravagers.
He says Ronan's in possession of
something called an Infinity Stone
and he's headed toward Xandar.
Good God.
It's a trick. He's a criminal.
Did he say why we
should believe him?
He said his crew just
escaped from prison
so he'd have no other reason
to risk coming to Xandar to help.
He says that he's an
"a-hole."
But he's not,
and I'm quoting him, here,
"100% a dick."
Do you believe him?
I don't know that I believe
anyone is 100% a dick, ma'am.
I mean, do you believe
that he is here to help?
Yeah.
A fleet approaches.
They appear to be Ravagers.
Fire!
Cover it down.
Submerge!
Rocket, hurry!
All pilots, dive!
They're beneath us!
Evacuate the city.
Our priority is to get our
people away from the battle.
Forward thrust, now!
Come on!
Quill! Yondu! Now!
Aw, hell!
I'm going down, Quill!
No more games with me, boy!
I'll see you
at the end of this!
There are too many
of them, Rocket!
We'll never make it up there!
Peter Quill.
This is Denarian Saal
of the Nova Corps.
For the record, I advised
against trusting you here.
They got my "dick" message!
Prove me wrong.
Yes!
We're just like Kevin Bacon.
The starboard kern
has been breached!
We have been boarded.
Continue our approach.
But the Nova Corps have engaged.
None of that will matter
once we reach the surface.
Seal security doors!
Now!
Get out of my way!
Oh, man.
All Nova pilots, interlock
and form a blockade.
The Dark Aster must
not reach the ground.
Locked in!
Locked in.
We're locked in.
I can barely see.
When did you learn to do that?
Pretty sure the answer is
"I am Groot."
The flight deck is
300 meters this way.
I want you all to know that I am grateful
for your acceptance after my blunders.
It is pleasing to
once again have
friends.
You, Quill, are my friend.
Thanks.
- This dumb tree, he is my friend.
- Mmm.
And this green
whore, she, too...
Oh, you must stop!
Gamora, look at
what you have done.
You have always been weak.
You stupid, traitorous...
Nobody talks to
my friends like that.
Head to the flight deck.
I'll shut down the power
to the security doors.
You remember that
time we had to ride back
from Rockaway Beach in
the back of that freezer truck?
Was that the time we
used our train money
to buy hot dogs?
You blew three
bucks trying to win
that stuffed bear for a redhead.
What was her name, again?
Dolores. You called her Dot.
She's gotta be a hundred
years old right now.
So are we, pal.
He can't have been here
more than a few hours.
Long enough to wake them up.
You ready?
Yeah.
You seem a little defensive.
It's been a long day.
At ease, Soldier.
I'm not currently after you.
Then why are you here?
Could be your
story's not so crazy.
Maybe.
Ross has no idea I'm here.
I'd like to keep it that way.
Otherwise, I
gotta arrest myself.
Well, that sounds
like a lot of paperwork.
It's good to see you, Tony.
You too, Cap.
Hey, Manchurian
Candidate, you're killing me.
There's a truce here.
You can drop...
Nebula, please.
Enough of this.
Necrocraft pilots,
enact immolation initiative.
They're dive-bombing the city!
Denarian Saal, should
we break formation?
No! Hold your positions.
Keep Ronan up there, Saal.
We'll take care of
the people down here.
I can't believe I'm taking
orders from a hamster.
Star-Lord.
Finally.
Ah!
You thief!
You will never make it to Ronan.
Yondu Udonta.
Order your men to
turn on the Nova Corps.
Enough nonsense, Ravager!
Time to die...
I got heat signatures.
How many?
Uh, one.
If it's any comfort,
they died in their sleep.
Did you really think I
wanted more of you?
What the hell?
I'm grateful to them, though.
They brought you here.
Please, Captain.
The Soviets built this
chamber to withstand
the launch blast
of UR-100 rockets.
I'm betting I could beat that.
Oh, I'm sure you
could, Mr. Stark.
Given time.
But then you'd never
know why you came.
You killed innocent people in
Vienna just to bring us here?
I've thought about
nothing else for over a year.
I studied you.
I followed you.
But now that you're
standing here...
I just realized...
there's a bit of green
in the blue of your eyes.
How nice to find a flaw.
You're Sokovian.
Is that what this is about?
Sokovia was a failed state
long before you blew it to hell.
No.
I'm here because
I made a promise.
You lost someone?
I lost everyone.
And so will you.
An empire toppled by its
enemies can rise again.
But one which
crumbles from within?
That's dead.
Forever.
I know that road.
What is this?
Help my wife.
Please. Help.
Sergeant Barnes?
Howard!
No, Tony.
Did you know?
I didn't know it was him.
Don't bullshit me, Rogers.
Did you know?
Yes.
Finger to the
throat means death.
Metaphor.
Yeah, sorta.
Oh, no.
Everybody shoot them
before they hit the ground.
Come on!
Xandar!
You stand accused.
Your wretched
peace treaty will not
save you now.
It is the tinder on
which you burn.
Rocket!
Hold on, Saal, just...
Quill, you gotta hurry.
The city's been evacuated,
but we're getting our
asses kicked down here.
Gamora hasn't opened the door!
Nebula!
Sister, help us fight Ronan.
You know he's crazy.
I know you're both crazy.
No!
- What the...?
- Ah!
Get out!
You did it!
I was mistaken.
I do remember your family.
Their screams were
pitiful. I...
Get out of here!
It wasn't him, Tony.
HYDRA had control of his mind!
Move!
It wasn't him!
Left boot jet failing.
Flight systems compromised.
Ah, crap.
He's not gonna stop. Go.
Come on, come on.
Targeting system's
knackered, boss.
I'm eyeballing it.
Do you even remember them?
I remember all of them.
This isn't gonna
change what happened.
I don't care.
He killed my mom.
You should have
seen his little face.
Just try, okay?
I'm going to bed.
I love you.
I almost killed the wrong man.
Hardly an innocent one.
This is all you wanted?
To see them rip
each other apart.
My father lived
outside the city.
I thought we
would be safe there.
My son was excited.
He could see the Iron
Man from the car window.
I told my wife, "Don't worry.
"They're fighting in the city.
We're miles from harm."
When the dust cleared...
and the screaming stopped...
it took me two days
until I found their bodies.
My father...
still holding my wife
and son in his arms.
And the Avengers?
They went home.
I knew I couldn't kill them.
More powerful men
than me have tried.
But, if I could get
them to kill each other...
I'm sorry about your father.
He seemed a good man.
With a dutiful son.
Vengeance has consumed you.
It's consuming them.
I am done letting it consume me.
Justice will come soon enough.
Tell that to the dead.
The living are not
done with you, yet.
No, Groot!
You can't.
You'll die.
Why are you doing this?
Why?
We
are
Groot.
You can't beat him hand-to-hand.
Analyze his fight pattern.
Scanning.
Countermeasures ready.
Let's kick his ass.
He's my friend.
So was I.
Stay down. Final warning.
I could do this all day.
That shield doesn't
belong to you.
You don't deserve it.
My father made that shield!
I called him an idiot.
You killed Groot!
Behold!
Your guardians of the galaxy.
What fruit have they wrought?
Only that my
father and his father
shall finally know vengeance.
People of Xandar,
the time has come
to rejoice and renounce
your paltry gods!
Your salvation is at hand.
Listen to these words.
Now bring it down hard!
What are you doing?
Dance-off, bro. Me and you.
Gamora.
Subtle. Take it back.
What are you doing?
I'm distracting you,
you big turd blossom.
No!
Peter! Take my hand!
Take my hand, Peter.
Mom.
Take my hand!
You're mortal!
How?
You said it yourself, bitch.
We're the Guardians
of the Galaxy.
Well, well, well.
Quite the light show.
Ain't this sweet.
But you got some
business to attend to
before all the
nookie-nookie starts.
Peter, you can't. Peter.
You gotta reconsider
this, Yondu.
I don't know who
you're selling this to,
but the only way the
universe can survive
is if you give it to
the Nova Corps.
I may be as pretty as an angel,
but I sure as hell ain't one.
Hand it over, son.
Yondu.
Do not open that Orb.
You know that, right?
You've seen what
it does to people.
Yeah, Quill turned out okay.
It's probably good we
didn't deliver him to his dad
like we was hired to do.
Yeah, that guy was a jackass.
He is gonna be so pissed when he
realizes I switched out the Orb on him.
He was gonna kill you, Peter.
Oh, I know.
But he was about
the only family I had.
No.
He wasn't.
Meals at 8 and 5.
Toilet privileges twice a day.
Raise your voice, zap.
Touch the glass, zap.
You step out of line,
you deal with me.
Please, step out of line, hmm?
So how does it feel?
To spend all that
time, all that effort...
to see it fail so spectacularly?
Did it?
It's just the first pass.
Yeah.
Give me some feedback,
anything you think of.
Shock absorption,
lateral movement.
Cup holder?
You may wanna think
about some AC down in...
Ow.
Let's go. I'll give you a hand.
No. Don't help me.
Ah.
138.
138 combat missions.
That's how many
I've flown, Tony.
Every one of them could've
been my last, but I flew them.
Because the fight
needed to be fought.
It's the same with
these Accords.
I signed because it
was the right thing to do.
And yeah, this sucks.
This is, uh...
This is a bad beat.
But it hasn't changed my mind.
I don't think.
You okay? Oh, yeah.
Are you Tony Stank?
Yes, this is Tony Stank.
You're in the right place.
Thank you for that!
Never dropping that, by the way.
"Table for one, Mr. Stank.
"Please, by the bathroom."
Tony...
I'm glad you're back
at the compound.
I don't like the idea of you
rattling around a
mansion by yourself.
We all need family.
The Avengers are yours.
Maybe more so than mine.
I've been on my
own since I was 18.
I never really fit in anywhere,
even in the Army.
My faith's in people, I guess.
Individuals.
And I'm happy to say
that, for the most part...
they haven't let me down.
Which is why I can't
let them down either.
Locks can be replaced,
but maybe they shouldn't.
I know I hurt you, Tony.
I guess I thought
by not telling you
about your parents...
I was sparing you...
but I can see now that I
was really sparing myself.
And I'm sorry.
Hopefully one day
you can understand.
I wish we agreed on the Accords.
I really do.
I know you're doing
what you believe in,
and that's all any of us can do.
That's all any of us should.
Priority call from
Secretary Ross.
There's been a breach
at the Raft prison.
Yeah, put him through.
Tony, we have a problem.
Uh, please hold. No, don't.
So no matter what...
I promise you...
if you need us...
if you need me...
I'll be there.
Why would you even know this?
When we arrested you, we noticed
an anomaly in your nervous system,
so we had it checked out.
I'm not Terran?
You are half Terran.
Your mother was of Earth.
Your father, well,
he's something very ancient
we've never seen here before.
That could be why you were able
to hold the Stone
for as long as you did.
Your friends have arrived.
On behalf of the Nova Corps,
we'd like to express
our profound gratitude
for your help in saving Xandar.
If you will follow Denarian Dey,
he has something to show you.
Thank you, Nova Prime.
Your wife and child shall rest well
knowing that you have avenged them.
Yes.
Of course, Ronan
was only a puppet.
It's really Thanos
I need to kill.
We tried to keep it as close
to the original as possible.
We salvaged as much as we could.
Wow.
I...
Thank you.
I have a family.
They're alive because of you.
Your criminal records
have also been expunged.
However, I have to warn you
against breaking any laws in the future.
Question.
What if I see something
that I want to take,
and it belongs to someone else?
You will be arrested.
But what if I want it more
than the person who has it?
- It's still illegal.
- That doesn't follow.
No, I want it more, sir.
Do you understand?
What are you laughing at?
Why? I can't have a
discussion with this gentleman?
What if someone
does something irksome
and I decide to
remove his spine?
That's...
That's actually murder.
It's one of the
worst crimes of all.
So...also illegal.
Hmm.
They'll be fine, Dey.
I'm gonna keep an eye on 'em.
You?
Yeah. Me.
Peter,
I know these last few months
have been hard for you.
But I'm going to a better place.
And I will be okay.
And I will always be with you.
You are the light of my life.
My precious son.
My little Star-Lord.
Love, Mom.
So, what should we do next?
Something good?
Something bad?
A bit of both?
We'll follow your
lead, Star-Lord.
Bit of both.
Who was it? Who hit you?
Some guy.
So itchy, man, God.
What's "some guy's" name?
Uh, Steve.
Steve? From 12-C?
With the overbite? No, no, no.
You don't know him.
He's from Brooklyn.
Ouch.
Well...
I hope you got a
few good licks in.
Yeah, I got quite
a few in, actually.
His friend was huge. Like huge.
That's way better. Thank you.
Okay, tough guy.
Love you, May.
Hey, can you shut the door?
Fine...
I'll do it myself.